# Code Book
The following code book describes the data employed in the course project, its features, the transformations applied and the summary choices made.

## Overview

The features selected for this data base were generated by the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set experiment,  built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

For additional details about the original information please reference:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

## Data Set

From the original data source it was extracted the files necessary for the project's scope. Which are listed below:

	*'features.txt': List of all features.
	*'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
	*'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
	*'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
	*'test/X_test.txt': Test set
	*'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

## Features
The signals that were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern are:

    "totalBodyAcceleration"                  
    "totalGravityAcceleration"              
    "totalBodyAccelerationJerk"              
    "totalBodyGyroscope"                    
    "totalBodyGyroscopeJerk"                 
    "totalBodyAccelerationMagnitude"        
    "totalGravityAccelerationMagnitude"      
    "totalBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitude"    
    "totalBodyGyroscopeMagnitude"            
    "totalBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitude"       
    "frequencyBodyAcceleration"              
    "frequencyBodyAccelerationJerk"         
    "frequencyBodyGyroscope"                 
    "frequencyBodyAccelerationMagnitude"    
    "frequencyBodyAccelerationJerkMagnitude" 
    "frequencyBodyGyroscopeMagnitude"       
    "frequencyBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitude"

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

    mean(): Mean value
    std(): Standard deviation

## Summary choices and transformations

-The testing and training data sets were loaded and merged together into a single data set.

-The columns were named after their respective feature measurement and activity.

-From the resulting data set it was extracted only the columns referring to mean and standard deviation measurements as well as the activity and subject features. The measures for meanFreq and meanGravity were not included. 

-The activity values were mapped from their numeric representation to a descriptive textual value.

-The column names were renamed with more descriptive and readable names. 

-Finally, a new indpendent tidy data set was formed with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
Information about the study design

